Participants completed three gesture imitation tasks using the left hand (which for the patients was their ipsilesional hand): (1) imitation of named meaningful gestures (hereafter referred to as “named”), (2) imitation of unnamed meaningful gestures (hereafter, “unnamed”), and (3) imitation of meaningless gestures (hereafter, “meaningless”). For each task, participants were presented with videos of an experimenter performing 16 gestures with the right hand and were instructed to imitate each gesture as if looking in a mirror. For each trial, the verb phrase corresponding to the upcoming gesture (named) or trial number (unnamed, meaningless) was presented visually and verbally. Each gesture was presented two times. During the first presentation, participants were instructed to watch the gesture in its entirety and not to respond. At the start of the second presentation, a tone cued participants to begin gesture imitation such that the participant gestured along with the model. The duration of each gesture video was 4-5 seconds. Novel gestures for the meaningless imitation task were developed to maintain similar spatiomotor characteristics of the meaningful gestures (e.g., plane of movement; joints moved; hand posture – refer to Buxbaum et al., 2014). Named and unnamed gestures were the same items and were therefore matched on all semantic and spatiomotor characteristics. Named performance was always assessed last, to avoid potential lexicosemantic priming. Named and unnamed gestures were recognized reliably by a separate sample of ten right-handed control participants (M = 97.5% accuracy, SD = 3.8%, range = 91.7 – 100%; Tarhan et al., 2015). We contrasted unnamed versus meaningless performance to examine the benefit of semantic meaning, while named versus unnamed performance examined the benefit of a visual/auditory linguistic label for meaningful gestures. The outcome measure across all tasks was gesture imitation accuracy. The Institutional Review Board did not approve public archival of data from the parent project that conducted this experimental task. Experimental stimuli or additional procedure details may be made available upon request to the corresponding author (hdresang@wisc.edu). No additional stipulations or approvals are required.
 
Remote testing procedures involved the experimenter presenting materials over Zoom and ensuring each participant had a computer camera field of view that included their left hand and arm. Zoom screen recordings were saved for offline gesture coding, which was performed offline by a trained coder naïve to the study hypotheses who had achieved inter-rater reliability (Cohen’s kappa) of at least 85% with other raters in the lab. Each trial was assigned a score of 0 (incorrect) or 1 (correct) for each of two gesture components: hand posture and kinematics. This praxis scoring procedure has been established and implemented in numerous previous studies (see Buxbaum et al., 2000 for details).
